API Reference Hooks useState useState is a React Hook that lets you add a state variable to your component. const [ state , setState ] = useState ( initialState ) Reference useState(initialState) set functions, like setSomething(nextState) Usage Adding state to a component Updating state based on the previous state Updating objects and arrays in state Avoiding recreating the initial state Resetting state with a key Storing information from previous renders Troubleshooting I've updated the state, but logging gives me the old value I've updated the state, but the screen doesn't update I'm getting an error: "Too many re-renders" My initializer or updater function runs twice I'm trying to set state to a function, but it gets called instead Reference useState(initialState) Call useState at the top level of your component to declare a state variable. import { useState } from 'react'; function MyComponent ( ) { const [ age , setAge ] = useState (28); const [ name , setName ] = useState ('Taylor'); const [ todos , setTodos ] = useState (() => createTodos()); // ... The convention is to name state variables like [something, setSomething] using array destructuring. See more examples below. Parameters initialState: The value you want the state to be initially. It can be a value of any type, but there is a special behavior for functions. This argument is ignored after the initial render. If you pass a function as initialState, it will be treated as an initializer function. It should be pure, should take no arguments, and should return a value of any type. React will call your initializer function when initializing the component, and store its return value as the initial state. See an example below. Returns useState returns an array with exactly two values: The current state. During the first render, it will match the initialState you have passed. The set function that lets you update the state to a different value and trigger a re-render. Caveats useState is a Hook, so you can only call it at the top level of your component or your own Hooks. You can't call it inside loops or conditions. If you need that, extract a new component and move the state into it. In Strict Mode, React will call your initializer function twice in order to help you find accidental impurities. This is development-only behavior and does not affect production. If your initializer function is pure (as it should be), this should not affect the behavior. The result from one of the calls will be ignored. set functions, like setSomething(nextState) The set function returned by useState lets you update the state to a different value and trigger a re-render. You can pass the next state directly, or a function that calculates it from the previous state: const [ name , setName ] = useState ('Edward'); function handleClick ( ) { setName ('Taylor'); setAge (a => a + 1); // ... Parameters nextState: The value that you want the state to be. It can be a value of any type, but there is a special behavior for functions. If you pass a function as nextState, it will be treated as an updater function. It must be pure, should take the pending state as its only argument, and should return the next state. React will put your updater function in a queue and re-render your component. During the next render, React will calculate the next state by applying all of the queued updaters to the previous state. Returns set functions do not have a return value. Caveats The set function only updates the state variable for the next render. If you read the state variable after calling the set function, you will still get the old value that was on the screen before your call. If the new value you provide is identical to the current state, as determined by an Object.is comparison, React will skip re-rendering the component and its children. This is an optimization. Although in some cases React may still need to call your component before skipping the children, it shouldn't affect your code. React batches state updates. It updates the screen after all the event handlers have run and have called their set functions. This prevents multiple re-renders during a single event. In the rare case that you need to force React to update the screen earlier, for example to access the DOM, you can use flushSync. The set function has a stable identity, so you will often see it omitted from Effect dependencies, but including it will not cause the Effect to fire. If the linter lets you omit a dependency without errors, it is safe to do. Learn more about removing Effect dependencies. Calling the set function during rendering is only allowed from within the currently rendering component. React will discard its output and immediately attempt to render it again with the new state. This pattern is rarely needed, but you can use it to store information from the previous renders. See an example below. In Strict Mode, React will call your updater function twice in order to help you find accidental impurities. This is development-only behavior and does not affect production. If your updater function is pure (as it should be), this should not affect the behavior. The result from one of the calls will be ignored. Usage Adding state to a component Call useState at the top level of your component to declare one or more state variables. import { useState } from 'react'; function MyComponent ( ) { const [ age , setAge ] = useState (42); const [ name , setName ] = useState ('Taylor'); // ... The convention is to name state variables like [something, setSomething] using array destructuring. useState returns an array with exactly two items: The current state of this state variable, initially set to the initial state you provided. The set function that lets you change it to any other value in response to interaction. To update what's on the screen, call the set function with some next state: function handleClick ( ) { setName ('Robin'); } React will store the next state, render your component again with the new values, and update the UI. Pitfall Calling the set function does not change the current state in the already executing code: function handleClick ( ) { setName ('Robin'); console.log (name); // Still "Taylor"! } It only affects what useState will return starting from the next render. Basic useState examples: Counter (number), Text field (string), Checkbox (boolean), Form (two variables). Example: Counter (number). In this example, the count state variable holds a number. Clicking the button increments it. Updating state based on the previous state: Suppose the age is 42. This handler calls setAge(age + 1) three times: function handleClick ( ) { setAge (age + 1); setAge (age + 1); setAge (age + 1); } However, after one click, age will only be 43 rather than 45! This is because calling the set function does not update the age state variable in the already running code. To solve this problem, you may pass an updater function to setAge instead of the next state: function handleClick ( ) { setAge (a => a + 1); setAge (a => a + 1); setAge (a => a + 1); } Here, a => a + 1 is your updater function. It takes the pending state and calculates the next state from it. React puts your updater functions in a queue. Then, during the next render, it will call them in the same order. Updating objects and arrays in state: You can put objects and arrays into state. In React, state is considered read-only, so you should replace it rather than mutate your existing objects. For example, if you have a form object in state, don't mutate it: form.firstName = 'Taylor'; Instead, replace the whole object by creating a new one: setForm ({ ...form , firstName : 'Taylor' }); Avoiding recreating the initial state: React saves the initial state once and ignores it on the next renders. To solve this, you may pass it as an initializer function to useState instead: function TodoList ( ) { const [ todos , setTodos ] = useState (createInitialTodos); // ... } Notice that you're passing createInitialTodos, which is the function itself, and not createInitialTodos(), which is the result of calling it. Resetting state with a key: You can reset a component's state by passing a different key to a component. In this example, the Reset button changes the version state variable, which we pass as a key to the Form. When the key changes, React re-creates the Form component from scratch, so its state gets reset. Storing information from previous renders: Usually, you will update state in event handlers. However, in rare cases you might want to adjust state in response to rendering — for example, you might want to change a state variable when a prop changes. Troubleshooting I've updated the state, but logging gives me the old value: Calling the set function does not change state in the running code. This is because states behaves like a snapshot. Updating state requests another render with the new state value, but does not affect the JavaScript variable in your already-running event handler. If you need to use the next state, you can save it in a variable before passing it to the set function. I've updated the state, but the screen doesn't update: React will ignore your update if the next state is equal to the previous state, as determined by an Object.is comparison. This usually happens when you change an object or an array in state directly. To fix this, you need to ensure that you're always replacing objects and arrays in state instead of mutating them. I'm getting an error: "Too many re-renders": You might get an error that says: Too many re-renders. React limits the number of renders to prevent an infinite loop. Typically, this means that you're unconditionally setting state during render, so your component enters a loop. Make sure you're passing the event handler function itself, not calling it. My initializer or updater function runs twice: In Strict Mode, React will call some of your functions twice instead of once. This is expected and helps you keep components pure. I'm trying to set state to a function, but it gets called instead: You can't put a function into state directly - if you pass a function, React assumes it's an initializer/updater and calls it. Wrap functions in an arrow function: useState(() => someFunction). Previous useRef Next useSyncExternalStore